Welcome back.
It's time to create our very first linked list data structure and let's say I wanted to create a linked
list that has 10 pointing to five point to 16.
A nice little simple one.
First off how will we go about visualizing this in a language like javascript that doesn't have linked
lists.
Well we can simply say that we have a new linked list let's just use lead here.
My linked list and this is going to equal to an object that has a head property remember because the
very first item in a linked list is the head.
And we're going to have a note.
The point of the node is to say hey anything can be in the snow.
Just put anything you want and it's a container around this data.
So think of note as a bucket of data.
And in this case we can just use an object to put our data in all this node needs to have in a linked
list is a value property of what the value of the note is Plus a next property which is the pointer
to the next node.
Now this value can be anything we want and the next property has to be a pointer or a reference to the
next node when in which case will be an object so will be a nother object that we're going to reference
in memory.
This way the value of the note can always change but the pointers are always going to be pointing to
that.
So we can change items and nothing else will change.
It will still point to that changed and updated value.
Let me show you what I mean.
We have the head here in which case it's 10 so we want to set 10 Azara value and this ahead is going
to reference point to the next node which will have a value.
Of 5.
Make sure I add the commas in here and the next value of what do you think.
Well the next note in the list which is value of 16 and next referencing what.
Well 16 is the tail of our linked list.
So that means it has to point to nil or what we call null terminated.
That means it's the end of the list perfect.
So this is what we want to create a linked list using this as our structure.
We're going to create a class called Class linked list and this class and we should be familiar with
the syntax by now.
We'll have a constructor which is the function that gets run at the very beginning when we create the
linked list.
That's going to take a value.
What does that mean.
Well when we finally say that we're creating a my linked list Remember we want to create this when I
create my linked list.
I'm going to instantiate the class that is run the class function here run the constructor and create
the linked list.
I'm going to say linked list and then give it a value to start off the list because while the list can
be empty as to have something it has to start with the head.
So in our case we want to started with 10 and ideally by running this command.
We've created the first part of our linked list just the 10.
Let me comment this out since we won't need it for now.
Now within this constructor we have.
Well the this doc had reference because while we need to keep track of the head and this head is going
to simply have a value that is equal to the value that we passed in.
That is the 10 here and then finally the next.
And what should the next be.
When we first create this list.
Well since 10 is the only thing that will have or one node next is going to equal no.
To begin with remember constructor is all about creating the very first linked list.
Note what happens when we instantiate a class to start off my linked list.
And then finally we have two other pieces of information that we need to track.
One is this dot tale and remember the word this just refers to the linked list so it's just referring
to the linked list that we create.
What is the tail going to be.
Well because we only have one item the head is also the tail.
So we simply say this God head.
And by the way I know him get a little bit confusing and as we go through this video series on Linked
Lists it is a bit hard to wrap your mind around.
So I really recommend that Yokota long cure and do the exercises because just watching me talk about
linked lists is not going to solidify your information.
It is hard to really visualize things.
So you may need to build a linked list a couple times to really get the hang of it but this will become
second nature once you get used to the syntax and also the idea of having this head and tail and referencing
them anyway.
The final piece of the puzzle is if you want we can keep track of the length of the linked list.
This is optional but I think it's good to keep track and because we have one item when we create this
link list because we give it a value we'll give it a length of 1.
There we go.
If I run this you get an error because well I have this code that's not really javascript so let's comment
that out and click run again.
I get undefined while because we haven't logged anything.
But if my console log my linked list and I run this look of that I have a linked list with a head that
is value of 10.
Next is null because while there's only one node and a tail which is the exact same thing pointing to
M. and a length of one.
Congratulations.
We just built our very first linked list.
However it's time for a little bit of an exercise.
Our list is not complete right.
We need to create this linked list so we need to be able to add 5 and then 16.
So my challenge to you is this.
We want to create an append method and this append method is going to take a value and in here.
We want to write a piece of code that allows us to say Konst for my linked list Daut append and give
it a value.
If we look at our list of 5 to append to our current list.
So I want to be able to say append 5 and then append 16 to create our completed list of 10 5 and 16.
How would you go about doing that.
And I'm going to leave this for you to try out.
Remember this may be a little bit hard and I'll provide the solution video and we'll code along.
But I do encourage you to challenge yourself and just think about what's happening and what we've done
in the constructor to create this append method.
Good luck and I'll see you in the solution video.
Bye bye.